>> Jason Lengstorf: And so,
now what we've got here,
is when this result component loads,
it's gonna receive a name prop.
Upon mounting,
it's going to run this useQuery and
that useQuery will determine what display.
So we'll either show a loading stage,
an error stage, or the results, or
an empty state if there's no results.
So let's go ahead and
run it and see what happens.
We're gonna use netlify dev.
>> Jason Lengstorf: So
to use it we are gonna have to import it,
so let's grab results and results.
And then you can drop this in here.
And it needs a name, so let's just
hard code one for now, we'll say rick.
>> Jason Lengstorf: And we've got
an issue, and that issue is we installed
the Apollo plugin, but
we didn't actually configure it.
So in our gatsby config, we're going to-
>> Jason Lengstorf: set
up module.exports and
then we will set up our plugins.
And we're gonna resolve
gatsby-plugin-apollo, and
for our options, we're gonna set a uri.
And that uri is going to be
the rickandmortyapi.com/graphql.
And what we're doing is,
we're telling Apollo to set up a client.
And the client that we wanna set up,
is going to try to attach to a GraphQL
endpoint to make queries against.
So the way that we're doing this,
we're using a helper in
the gatsby-plugin-apollo.
So that we don't have to
set up the provider and
mess with getting the client configured.
This is only gonna work
in the happiest of paths,
if you're doing anything custom,
middleware, anything like that.
You'll probably find yourself having to
manually configure the Apollo client.
But for simple examples where your GraphQL
endpoint is pretty straightforward,
you're not doing any kind
of cross origin stuff.
You're gonna find that this is a really
nice way to very quickly set up
the GraphQL client.
So now that this is configured,
we should be able to start it again,
and now it'll actually have
a Apollo client to run against.
Let's do netlify dev.
>> Jason Lengstorf: Okay.
>> Jason Lengstorf: All right, so-
>> Jason Lengstorf: We're kind of okay
here, but something went wrong,
because we should have results.
So why doesn't it like our results?
>> Jason Lengstorf: And
we're getting them, so
this is my favorite hack when
you're doing client-side stuff.
Is you can go to the Network tab and
see what's happening, and so
we know we're getting data.
So the error is in my code,
not a problem with the network.
So we can go back and look at our results,
and figure out what was missed.
>> Jason Lengstorf: So we've got if we've
got data, and we've got data characters.
>> Jason Lengstorf: But
we need the results length,
not the characters length, so that is me.
Hey, there we go.
So what we can see now is that
we are doing a search, and
we're getting a search for what we want.
Okay, this is all good, so let's search
for Rick, let's search for Morty.
Okay, so we're not pulling anything
out yet, we've hard-coded our name.
So the last thing that we wanna do here,
is extract that query from the state,
if we're doing it locally.
Or from the Path if we're
being linked to it.
And make sure that we're actually
searching for what we wanna search for,
and not what's hard-coded.
So to do that, we're going to
open up our search component,
I need to rename that to Search.
And inside of it we are going to
turn this into a full function,
so that we can do some
query management in it.
And we're gonna get the query
out of the location.
So something that Gatsby is
gonna pass into every page, and
again this is only for pages.
So anything that's created with
the Create Page action in Gatsby,
which is anything in the pages directory.
Or anything that's created as a template
using like Gatsby actions Create Page.
The location is gonna come in as an object
that gives us some metadata about where
we are.
And what we want
specifically in this case,
is we want to get the location.state.
And if that's set, we wanna get the query
out of it, so location.state.query.
And if that's not set,
then we can jump down and
say let's get the location.pathname.
So the location.pathname is
gonna be like Search /Morty.
So we can replace, and again we're
getting into regular expression land.
So anything starting with search,
we are going to-
>> Jason Lengstorf: remove the /search and
the \ after that, and
we will replace it with nothing.
And if that doesn't work,
we will set it to be an empty string.
And then to get the name,
we're going to do a query.replace.
And we just wanna take any hyphens and
replace them with a space character.
And so
we're using regular expressions here.
So any hyphen, the plus means one or more,
so we're looking for one or more hyphens.
And then we'll collapse those down
into a single space character.
That means that we have a name now, and
it also means that we can show
a little more helpful information.
So let's start, we'll quote this and
we'll say that if the name is set.
We're going to say Showing results for
"" and
that's gonna need to
be a template literal.
Otherwise, show Search for Rick and Morty.
So first it should show us what our
current Search query is right in
the headline.
Next, we're going to say if we have
a name, then show the results.
>> Jason Lengstorf: And so
what we should see here,
is now it's showing us results for
morty and it will pull that from here.
So if I do another search,
let's say alien, it loads aliens.
And if I search for
rick, it pulls up Rick.
And then if I take something like this,
and
I throw it right into the URL,
it will search for Adjudicator.
So we can now search for
things by updating the URL.
We can share these links around and
someone could click it and
see those results.
And all of that's done by using
Apollo on the frontend, and
then setting up client routes in Gatsby.
To handle all of the routing and
making sure that things end up
where they're supposed to be.